Eight people were shot and killed in a latenight shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis, and the shooter killed himself, police said.Multiple other people were injured Thursday night when gunfire erupted at the facility near the Indianapolis International Airport, police spokesperson Genae Cook said.At least four were hospitalized, including one person with critical injuries. Another two people were treated and released at the scene, Cook said.The shooter wasnt immediately identified, and investigators were in the process of conducting interviews and gathering information. Cook said it was too early to tell whether the shooter was an employee at the facility.The shooting was the latest in a string of mass shootings across the U.S. in recent months. Eight people were fatally shot at massage businesses across metro Atlanta, and 10 died in gunfire at a supermarket in Boulder, Colorado last month.This was at least the third mass shooting this year in Indianapolis. Five people, including a pregnant woman, were shot and killed in January, and a man was accused of killing three adults and a child before abducting his daughter during at argument at a home in March.Police were called to reports of gunfire Thursday just after 11 p.m. and officers observed an active shooting scene, Cook said. The gunman later killed himself.Were still trying to ascertain the exact reason and cause for this incident, Cook said.FedEx released a statement saying it is cooperating with authorities and working to get more information.We are aware of the tragic shooting at our FedEx Ground facility near the Indianapolis airport. Safety is our top priority, and our thoughts are with all those who are affected, the statement said.Family members gathered at a local hotel to await word on loved ones. Some said employees arent allowed to have their phones with them while working shifts at the facility, making it difficult to contact them, WTHRTV reported.Live video from news outlets at the scene showed crime scene tape in the parking lot outside the facility.A witness who said he works at the facility told WISHTV that he saw a man with a gun after hearing several gunshots.I saw a man with a submachine gun of some sort, an automatic rifle, and he was firing in the open, Jeremiah Miller said.Another man told WTTV that his niece was sitting in the drivers seat of her car when the gunfire erupted, and she was wounded.She got shot on her left arm, said Parminder Singh. Shes fine, shes in the hospital now.He said his niece did not know the shooter.