A rare, rogue immune response is the main suspect as authorities investigate highly unusual blood clots following use of two similar COVID19 vaccines from Johnson  Johnson and AstraZeneca.The U.S. recommended that states pause giving the JJ vaccine on Tuesday while authorities examine six reports of the unusual clots, including a death, out of more than 6.8 million Americans given the onedose vaccination so far.But the small number of cases sparked concern because just last week, European authorities said similar clots were possibly linked to the AstraZeneca vaccine, which is not yet OKd in the U.S. That led some countries to limit its use to certain age groups.Also Tuesday, JJ delayed its imminent European rollout.WHAT MAKES THESE CLOTS DIFFERENTThese are not typical blood clots. Theyre weird in two ways.First, theyre occurring in unusual parts of the body, such as veins that drain blood from the brain. Second, those patients also have abnormally low levels of platelets  cells that help form clots  a condition normally linked to bleeding, not clotting.Scientists in Norway and Germany first raised the possibility that some people are experiencing an abnormal immune system response to the AstraZeneca vaccine, forming antibodies that attack their own platelets. Thats the theory as the U.S. now investigates clots in JJ vaccine recipients, Dr. Peter Marks, the Food and Drug Administrations vaccine chief, said Tuesday.WHY SUSPECT IMMUNE RESPONSEThe first clue A widely used blood thinner named heparin sometimes causes a very similar side effect. Very rarely, heparin recipients form antibodies that both attack and overstimulate platelets, said Dr. Geoffrey Barnes, a clot expert at the University of Michigan.It kind of can cause both sides of the bleedingclotting spectrum, Barnes said.Because heparin is used so often in hospitals, that reaction is something that every hospital in America knows how to diagnose and treat.There also are incredibly rare reports of this weird clotlow platelet combination in people who never took heparin, such as after an infection. Those unexplainable cases havent gotten much attention, Barnes said, until the first clot reports popped up in some AstraZeneca vaccine recipients.Health officials said one reason for the JJ pause was to make sure doctors know how to treat patients suspected of having these clots, which includes avoiding giving heparin.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention later Tuesday provided advice on how to spot and treat the unusual clots.WHAT DOES RESEARCH SHOWIn two studies in the New England Journal of Medicine last week, research teams from Norway and Germany found plateletattacking antibodies in the blood of some AstraZeneca vaccine recipients who had the strange clots. The antibodies were similar to those found with the heparin side effect even though the patients had never used that blood thinner.Its not yet clear if theres a similar link to the JJ vaccine. But the JJ and AstraZeneca vaccines, as well as a Russian COVID19 vaccine and one from China, are made with the same technology. They train the immune system to recognize the spike protein that coats the coronavirus. To do that, they use a cold virus, called an adenovirus, to carry the spike gene into the body.FDAs Marks wouldnt say if the weird clots may be common to these socalled adenovirusvector vaccines. In addition to the AstraZeneca data, JJ makes an Ebola vaccine the same way and he said authorities would examine the totality of the evidence.WHAT ABOUT OTHER VACCINESThe most widely used COVID19 vaccines in the U.S.  from Pfizer and Moderna  are made with a completely different technology, and the FDA said there is no sign of a similar clot concern with those vaccines.What about people worried because they received the JJ vaccination Marks said its important not to confuse the rare clot risk with normal flulike symptoms people often feel a day or two after a COVID19 vaccination. He said concerning symptoms, such as severe headache or severe abdominal pain, would occur a week to three weeks after the JJ vaccine.