Iran began enriching uranium Friday to its highestever purity, edging close to weaponsgrade levels, as it attempts to pressure negotiators in Vienna during talks on restoring its nuclear deal with world powers after an attack on its main enrichment site.A top official said only a few grams an hour of uranium gas would be enriched up to 60 purity  triple its previous level but at a quantity far lower than what the Islamic Republic had been able to produce. Iran also is enriching at an aboveground facility at its Natanz nuclear site already visited by international inspectors, not deep within underground halls hardened to withstand airstrikes.The narrow scope of the new enrichment provides Iran with a way to quickly deescalate if it chooses, experts say, but time is narrowing. An Iranian presidential election looms on the horizon as Tehran already threatens to limit international inspections. Israel, suspected of carrying out Sundays sabotage at Natanz, also could act again amid a longrunning shadow war between the two Middle East rivals.Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf, Irans parliament speaker, announced the higher enrichment on Twitter.The young and Godbelieving Iranian scientists managed to achieve a 60 enriched uranium product, Qalibaf said. I congratulate the brave nation of Islamic Iran on this success. The Iranian nations willpower is miraculous and can defuse any conspiracy.The head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, the countrys civilian nuclear arm, later acknowledged the move to 60. Ali Akbar Salehi told Iranian state television the centrifuges now produce 9 grams an hour, but that would drop to 5 grams an hour in the coming days.Any enrichment level that we desire is in our reach at the moment and we can do it at any time we want, Salehi said.It wasnt clear why the first announcement came from Qalibaf, a hardline former leader in the paramilitary Revolutionary Guard already named as a potential presidential candidate in Irans upcoming June election.While 60 is higher than any level Iran previously enriched uranium, it is still lower than weaponsgrade levels of 90. Iran had been enriching up to 20  and even that was a short technical step to weaponsgrade. The deal limited Irans enrichment to 3.67.The International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors Irans nuclear program, did not respond to a request for comment. Earlier this week, it sent its inspectors to Natanz and confirmed Iran was preparing to begin 60 enrichment at an aboveground facility at the site.Israel, which has twice bombed Mideast countries to stop their nuclear programs, plans to hold a meeting of its top security officials Sunday over the Iranian announcement.Israel is determined to defend itself against any attempt to harm its sovereignty or citizens, and will do whatever it takes to prevent this radical and antiSemitic regime from acquiring nuclear weapons, Israeli Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi said in Cyprus.Iran insists its nuclear program is peaceful, though the West and the IAEA say Tehran had an organized military nuclear program up until the end of 2003. An annual U.S. intelligence report released Tuesday maintained the longtime American assessment that Iran isnt currently trying to build a nuclear bomb.Iran previously had said it could use uranium enriched up to 60 for nuclearpowered ships. However, the Islamic Republic currently has no such ships in its navy.The threat of higher enrichment by Iran already had drawn criticism from the U.S. and three European nations in the deal  France, Germany and the United Kingdom. On Friday, European Union spokesman Peter Stano called Irans decision a very worrisome development.There is no credible explanation or civilian justification for such an action on the side of Iran, Stano said. The Vienna talks aim to make sure that we go back from such steps that bring Iran further away from delivering on its commitments and obligations.Diplomats reconvened Friday in Vienna, with more talks planned Saturday, Russian representative Mikhail Ulyanov said. Chinese negotiator Wang Qun earlier called for doing away with all disruptive factors by moving forward as swiftly as we can on the work of negotiations, especially by zeroing in on sanction lifting.The 2015 nuclear deal, which former President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew the U.S. from in 2018, prevented Iran from stockpiling enough highenriched uranium to be able to pursue a nuclear weapon if it chose in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions.In Washington, President Joe Biden said Tehrans latest step was contrary to the deal. We do not support and do not think its at all helpful, he said. But he added that the Vienna talks had not been sidetracked.We are nonetheless pleased that Iran has agreed to continue to engage in indirect discussions with us on how we move forward and what is needed to get back into the nuclear deal, he said. Its premature to make a judgment as to what the outcome will be, but were still talking.The weekend attack at Natanz was initially described only as a blackout in its electrical grid  but later Iranian officials began calling it an attack.One Iranian official referred to several thousand centrifuges damaged and destroyed in a state TV interview. However, no other official has offered that figure and no images of the aftermath have been released.In the coming weeks, Iran has threatened to further impede IAEA inspections and potentially destroy video recordings it now holds of its facilities. Meanwhile, it continues to use advanced centrifuges and gain knowhow in high enrichment, something that worries nonproliferation experts.Because the deal has started to unravel, Iran has begun to acquire more knowledge about how to operate more advanced machines, said Daryl G. Kimball, the executive director of the Washingtonbased Arms Control Association. This particular operation, enriching to 60, is going to give it even more information.Borrowing a term used to describe diluting highenriched uranium, Kimball added That knowledge cannot be downblended. It cannot be reversed.